Syntax
------

``@alias <aliasNamepath>``

Overview
--------

The @alias tag causes JSDoc to treat all references to a member as if
the member had a different name. This tag is especially useful if you
define a class within an inner function; in this case, you can use the
@alias tag to tell JSDoc how the class is exposed in your app.

While the @alias tag may sound similar to the @name tag, these tags
behave very differently. The @name tag tells JSDoc to ignore any code
associated with the comment. For example, when JSDoc processes the
following code, it ignores the fact that the comment for ``bar`` is
attached to a function:

.. code:: js

   /**
    * Bar function.
    * @name bar
    */
   function foo() {}

The @alias tag tells JSDoc to pretend that Member A is actually named
Member B. For example, when JSDoc processes the following code, it
recognizes that ``foo`` is a function, then renames ``foo`` to ``bar``
in the documentation:

{% example %}

.. code:: js

   /**
    * Bar function.
    * @alias bar
    */
   function foo() {}

{% endexample %}

Examples
--------

Suppose you are using a class framework that expects you to pass in a
constructor function when you define a class. You can use the @alias tag
to tell JSDoc how the class will be exposed in your app.

In the following example, the @alias tag tells JSDoc to treat the
anonymous function as if it were the constructor for the class
“trackr.CookieManager”. Within the function, JSDoc interprets the
``this`` keyword relative to trackr.CookieManager, so the “value” method
has the namepath “trackr.CookieManager#value”.

{% example “Using @alias with an anonymous constructor function” %}

.. code:: js

   Klass('trackr.CookieManager',

       /**
        * @class
        * @alias trackr.CookieManager
        * @param {Object} kv
        */
       function(kv) {
           /** The value. */
           this.value = kv;
       }

   );

{% endexample %}

You can also use the @alias tag with members that are created within an
immediately invoked function expression (IIFE). The @alias tag tells
JSDoc that these members are exposed outside of the IIFE’s scope.

{% example “Using @alias for static members of a namespace” %}

.. code:: js

   /** @namespace */
   var Apple = {};

   (function(ns) {
       /**
        * @namespace
        * @alias Apple.Core
        */
       var core = {};

       /** Documented as Apple.Core.seed */
       core.seed = function() {};

       ns.Core = core;
   })(Apple);

{% endexample %}

For members that are defined within an object literal, you can use the
@alias tag as an alternative to the
[@lends]\ `lends-tag <tags-lends.html>`__ tag.

{% example “Using @alias for an object literal” %}

.. code:: js

   // Documenting objectA with @alias

   var objectA = (function() {

       /**
        * Documented as objectA
        * @alias objectA
        * @namespace
        */
       var x = {
           /**
            * Documented as objectA.myProperty
            * @member
            */
           myProperty: 'foo'
       };

       return x;
   })();

   // Documenting objectB with @lends

   /**
    * Documented as objectB
    * @namespace
    */
   var objectB = (function() {

       /** @lends objectB */
       var x = {
           /**
            * Documented as objectB.myProperty
            * @member
            */
           myProperty: 'bar'
       };

       return x;
   })();

{% endexample %}
